the Biden Administration says it's
sanctioning dozens of Israeli settlers
that it accuses of carrying out attacks
in the occupied West Bank paty khh
reports now from Washington
DC the videos are everywhere daily
evidence of Palestinians being violently
attacked by Israeli settlers often armed
and in some cases murdering Palestinians
burning homes businesses and
cars they have weapons and started
shooting at us we were trapped here in
the houses with the children before
October 7th the United Nations says
violence from settlers had already
displaced over 1,00 Palestinians and
that since the beginning of the war
daily settler attacks have more than
doubled now the US is imposing travel
bans on a few dozen of those responsible
possibly including their family members
as well the state department careful to
point out it involves both sides as
secretary blinkin made clear to leaders
of the government of Israel last week
week during his visit to the region they
need to do more to stop extremist
violence against Palestinians and hold
those responsible for it accountable we
will continue to insist that both
Israeli and Palestinian leaders take
action to interrupt the increasing
levels of violence against
civilians in a state of Law and Israel
is a state of law the right to use
violence belongs only to those who are
certified to do so by the government in
our case that's the military the Israeli
police the shinb and such that will
likely ring Hollow to the Palestinians
in the occupied West Bank who say
Israeli soldiers are often there and do
nothing to stop the
violence he saw the settlers some of
them had weapons and were shooting it
was fine with him but if you were
standing 200 M from the settler telling
him to go away the soldier would shoot
you why is this
happening repeated attacks with no
consequences except now now one less
place to visit for a few dozen Israelis
Patty Kaine Al jazer
Washington well we can get more on this
from our White House correspondent
Kimberly hit who joins us from
Washington DC and Kimberly tell us how
are these measures going down in the
US well it's certainly being received by
the largest Islamic group in the United
States known as care it's the Council
American Islamic ations uh as a step in
the right direction but certainly not
going far enough and here's why uh
because what is well known is that many
of these extremist uh settlers are dual
passport holders in other words they
have Israeli citizenship but they also
hold American passports and that means
that these restrictions are essentially
meaningless for at least 15% of them uh
they're able to to come into the United
States because they're also US citizens
so in other words uh they can continue
to act with impunity and so what the
Council on Islamic relations is saying
is that there needs to be something with
more teeth particularly when it comes to
American citizens for example uh
criminal charges the other thing that
the that this group is is asking for is
uh sanctions against the extremist
cabinet members such as uh the National
Security uh Minister Ben gavier the
cabinet member that is a a known racist
who espouses hate against both
Palestinian Muslims and Christians uh
justifying it as being something he says
is in the Torah and uh essentially has
been documented by Amnesty International
as uh conducting and overseeing in the
prisons as of October 7th uh torture Mur
murder kidnapping uh and other
atrocities uh under his watch so uh this
is certainly again something that in
terms of these visa restrictions being
viewed as a step in the right direction
but again this is being viewed as more
something that the Biden Administration
has done to satisfy political pressure
but uh there needs to be something now
that has real teeth in the eyes of many
here in the United States of criminal
nature through the justice system and
that's what uh many here are pushing for
Kimberly thanks for that and listening
in is Adam Shapiro who's a director of
advocacy for the Israel uh for Israel
and Palestine at daor of Human Rights
and foreign policy Think Tank he joins
us live on Skype uh from Michigan in the
United States and Adam Shapiro you heard
Kimberly there these measures uh
essentially meaningless many of these
settlers are dual Nationals with the US
passports anyway denying them visas
doesn't get you very far how much impact
uh realistically is this going to have
on settler communities and settler
activity across the occupied West
Bank I think your correspondence is
correct to to report that these uh this
action is largely meaningless um and
symbolic um the as you point out
correctly those who are dual citizens
and and there is certainly a category of
those settlers who have committed
violent acts against Palestinians who
are American citizens or citizens of
other countries and who won't be
impacted by this Visa ban um but we we
should understand this though I do think
as an important signal that the
administration is taking this issue more
seriously we also do know that behind
the scenes um uh not necessarily
publicly announced that the
administration is looking at other
avenues of sanctioning um through means
that it has its disposal that it uses uh
towards individuals in other countries
for similar types of human rights
violations and so I think we have to
understand this also that this is the
beginning of a process that it's upon
incumbent upon people like myself and
others who work in the advocacy
Community uh to keep pushing on and to
keep uh pushing this Administration to
take more meaningful steps and more uh
consequential steps uh in order to to
not just you know issue B Visa bans but
also to actually have concrete sanctions
including uh you know following what
weapons are being used and if these
weapons are americanmade and supplied
weapons then dealing with the with that
through the mechanisms that Congress has
and and the administration would also
have um as well as potential criminal
proceedings going so far as as as as to
use the criminal justice system they are
as we we've said many of them dual
Nationals American citizens as well that
could be a measure with real teeth is
that on the
cards I think potentially that is
definitely on the cards if we can make
the strong enough case against an
individual with especially the one with
American citizenship but besides you
know uh the judicial sort of criminal
process there's other steps such as
asset freezing um which would include
bank accounts there's looking at the
larger ecosystem of settler violence
which would include looking at the NOS
that provide charitable tax deductible
funds uh to settlements and settlement
Enterprises and then at a larger scale
which is tied to the state because as
your reporter you know noted uh there
are those in the current Israeli
government who are settlers themselves
who are actively engaged in inciting and
supporting settler violence and so
looking at you know settlement Regional
councils um which are these bodies
governing the settlements and who are
you know who involve many of these
violent individuals um looking at these
as criminal organizations much in the
same way as a narc trafficking group
would be looked at as a criminal
organization with financial assets with
other types of control and and weaponry
and and uh using violence to execute you
know its uh its plans I think that this
is something that's available to the
United States looking at it from from
this angle and I think that's where we
have to push the government but as
things stand you'd agree that this is
pretty much a symbolic gesture now
albeit perhaps a message aimed by the
Biden administration at the Netanyahu
government which of course contains some
senior figures in the settler community
that perhaps more pressure is being
prepared perhaps they are willing to go
further I I definitely think that they
are willing there is a willingness to go
further I think this is also in part um
the president's effort to sort of
address The Descent Brewing internally
in the state department and in other US
Government administrations which are
unhappy with Biden's policy towards
Israel uh in in general including what's
happening in Gaza but also what's Happ
been happening in the West Bank um I
think at this point the Biden
Administration is starting to to wake up
to understand that small gestures such
as this will not have the results that
it is hoping for or expecting that this
current Israeli government just is not
concerned at all with warnings they're
only they only take notice when there
are direct actions and that now is on
the plate for the administration to do
okay Adam Shapiro there with the human
rights and foreign policy Think Tank
Dawn many thanks for your
thoughts thank you